[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to look
at some Excel functions that will
allow us to split text data,
namely the LEFT, RIGHT and MID functions.
So Zara's next task is to find out
which month each invoice was raised in.
What she basically needs to
do is extract the first three
characters from the invoice column.
And to do this she's going to
use Excel's LEFT function.
So we're going to click into M2 and
type "=le" and Tab.
The first thing the LEFT function needs
to know is the original text that you
want to split up.
That's our invoiced value in D2.
Then we type a comma.
The next thing the LEFT wants to know
is how many characters do we want to
extract from the left of that text in D2.
And the answer is 3.
Press Tab to jump to the next cell and
there's our March.
The next things Zara wanted to do is get
the purchase order number on its own.
At the moment, the purchase order number
is joined to the location the customer
purchase order column.
So this time we want to extract
six characters from the right.
And yes,
we're going to use the RIGHT function.
So in N2, type =ri and
Tab to select RIGHT.
I'll text this time is G2.
Type a comma.
And we need six characters.
And again, let's press Tab to jump in O2.
And there's our purchase order number.
The last example we're going to look
at is we want to get the location
which is also in the purchase
order number to keep it simple.
We're just going to return an S for
Sydney and an M for Melbourne.
But you'll notice the location is not
on the left and it's not on the right.
It's actually in the middle.
So for this one we're going to
need to use Excel's MID function.
In O2, start by typing "=mi" and
Tab to select MID.
The MID function has three arguments.
It starts with the text.
So we're going to click on G2 and
type comma.
But now because it's not starting
at the left or the right,
we need to specify a start position.
And the start position is
actually position number four,
which is where the first
letter we want begins.
So we're going to type a 4 and then
a comma and now it's like the LEFT and
the RIGHT.
We specify how many characters we
want to get from that position.
And the answer is 1.
If we press Enter,
there's our S for Sydney.
And we can now copy all three down.
So I'm going to select M2 to O2.
Come to my fill handle and
double click to copy down.
So to recap,
the three functions we've looked at for
splitting text Data are LEFT,
RIGHT, and MID.
These examples were all
fairly straightforward.
But in the next video, we're going to look
at how we can solve slightly more complex
problems where the data we want to extract
isn't necessarily the same length.